5.1
a)  for loop is for counter-controlled iteration 
     while loop is for sentinel controlled iteration

b)  The do...while statement tests the loop-continuation condition "After" executing the loop’s body; therefore, the body always executes at least once.

c)  The Switch statement selects among multiple actions based on the possible values of an integer variable or expression, or a String.

d)  The Continue statement, when executed in an iteration statement, skips the remaining statements in the loop body and proceeds with the next iteration of the loop.


e)  The "&&" operator (short-circuit) can be used to ensure that two conditions are both true before choosing a certain path of execution.

f)  If the loop-continuation condition in a "for" header is initially false, the program does not execute the "for loop" statement's body.

g)  Methods that perform common tasks and do not require objects are "static" methods.

5.2
a) True.

b)  True.

c) False. It is not true if either in the sense that in this situation not either but both have to be true.

d)  True.

e)  True.

f)  The answer is false because java does not make use of - as range in their switch case.

g)  


5.4 
  a) Error: The semicolon after the while header causes an infinite loop, and there’s a missing left brace.
  Correction: Replace the semicolon by a {, or remove both the ; and the }.

  b) Error: Using a floating-point number to control a for statement may not work, because floating-point numbers are represented only approximately by most computers.
  Correction: Use an integer, and perform the proper calculation to get the values you want. 

  c) Error: The missing code is the break statement in the statements for the first case add a "break" at the end of the statements for the first case.
 

  d) Error: An improper relational operator is used in the while’s continuation condition.
  Correction: Use <= rather than <, or change 10 to 11.

  5.5 TO 5.10
  1. Initialization
  2. controlled condition
  3. increment
  4. statement


  5.6 Both loops are used for iteration however the while loop is more effective when we have no idea of the amount of times a process is suppose to run therefore it uses a sentinel, while a for is used when we know the number of times an event is suppose to occur which is often referred to as counter controlled.

  5.7 In this instance a do-while is more effective since we already understand that for a do-while it runs the body at least once before checking the condition.

  5.8 The break statement ends a statement or an iteration while continue skips the aspect where it is being called and moves to the next iteration or statement.

  5.9 
  a). so instead of i+ it should be i++ for the increment the code be something like this while (i = 1; i <= 10, i++)
	  System.out.println(i);

  b). Add an equal to sign "=".


  c). i think that the increment should be 1-- since are trying to do a count down from 19 -1, therefore the code should look like this 
	  for (int i = 19; i > 1; i--)
	  System.out.println(i);
	  
  d). the question for numbers in range 1 - 50 but the condition here give us numbers from 1 - 51 there the fix should like this.
	  
  5.10
  it prints * four times and # 5 times
                                 
